# UD2

Uni-Dock2 C++ engine, working together with unidock_process.

This document serves for Developers, not Users.

## Requirements
* CUDA 11.8+


## Compilation
There will be a binary `ud2` under `build/bin` and the library it relies on: `build/src/libud_lib.so`.

Assure the library path  


## How to run it
The input you should prepare is a config.yaml file, definition of which can be found 
in template file `ud2/data/config_template.yaml`.

As illustrated in the yaml file, you should also prepare a json file containing the 
receptor & ligands info, which can be generated by **unidock_process**.

### Example
```shell
cd ud2/test/data/dev1
../../../build/bin/ud2 config.yaml
```

### Different Pre-defined Tasks
Several typical tasks are defined, and you can easily apply them by setting `config.yaml`:
```shell
...
Settings:
  task: !!str screen # screen | score | mc | free
...
```
Explanation of pre-defined tasks:

#### screen
Perform standard docking tasks, where ONE receptor and some(>0) ligands are provided. 
For each ligand, `Advanced->exhaustiveness` MC searching tasks will finally generate 
`Advanced->exhaustiveness` poses. After clustered according to `Advanced->rmsd_limit`,
the best `Advanced->num_pose` poses within the `Advanced->energy_range` kcal/mol
will be output to the result json file, along with their energy terms.

The **energy terms** of one pose is a list of floats, namely `[Predicted Free Energy of Affinity, 
Total Score, Intra-molecular Score, Inter-molecular Score, Conformation-independent Score, 
Penalty Score, Bias Score]`.

#### score
Just provide score for the current pose of each providing ligand. No 
randomization/searching/optimization/clustering/filtering/refinement will be performed.
Only the given pose and its energy terms will be saved to the result json file.

#### optimize
Only perform local refinement(BFGS). No randomization/searching/optimization/clustering/filtering will be performed.

#### randomize
Only perform randomization to create `exhaustiveness` poses for each given ligand. It is usually used to generate
random poses. And you can also test the distribution of randomization methods with it.
No optimization/clustering/filtering/refinement will be performed.

#### mc
Only perform Monte Carlo searching to find the best poses. It is usually used to test the 
sampling ability of MC process. In this task, after randomization, the metropolis MC will 
be performed without optimization of each pose. 
Clustering/filtering will still be performed.
No refinement.

## Search Mode
### free
If the pre-defined tasks can't meet your need, pls use `screen` as the task type, and change
detailed settings in `Advanced` as you like, since all provided parameters will take effect for 
`screen` task.

   
